---
title: gdp_amazonas
format: docusaurus-md
---




# gdp_amazonas

Gross Domestic Product - GDP of Amazonas

### Description

This database contains information about the Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) of the state of Amazonas over the years (from 2010 to 2021). It
includes values in R\$ 1,000,000.

### Usage

```r
gdp_amazonas
```

### Format

‘gdp_amazonas’ A data frame with 48 rows and 21 columns:

#### year

Indicates the year in which the GDP info was collected

#### quarter

Specifies the quarter of the year

#### agriculture

Refers to the economic output from agricultural activities, including
cultivation, harvesting, and logistical support after harvest

#### livestock

Represents the economic contribution from livestock farming, covering
meat, dairy production, and related support services

#### forest_fishing_prod

Outputs from forestry (timber and non-timber products), fishing
activities and aquaculture (fish farming)

#### extractive_ind

Extractive industries of natural resources as minearls and oil

#### manufacturing_ind

Refers to the transformation of raw materials into finished goods
industries

#### basic_infrastructure

Encompasses services related to electricity and gas generation, water
supply, sewage treatment, and waste management.constructionRepresents
economic activities related to building construction.

#### vehicle_retail_repair

Includes all commercial activities related to selling goods and services
as well as vehicle repair services.

#### transport_storage_post

Covers services related to transporting people and goods, storage
facilities, and postal services.

#### accomodation_food

Refers to economic activities in tourism-related sectors such as hotels
and restaurants.information_communicationEncompasses sectors dealing
with information technology and telecommunications.

#### financial_activities

Includes banks, financial institutions, insurance companies, and various
financial services.

#### real_state_activities

Refers to transactions involving buying, selling, or renting properties.

#### professional_activities

Covers a wide range of specialized professional services including
consulting and administrative support.

#### public_admin_defense_health_edu

Represents public sector spending on government administration, national
defense, public education, health care services, and social security
programs.

#### private_edu_health

Refers to educational institutions and health care providers operating
in the private sector.

#### art_culture_sport

Encompasses activities related to entertainment, cultural events, sports
facilities, and other service-oriented sectors.

#### domestic_services

Includes personal services provided within households such as cleaning
or caregiving.

#### taxes

Represents taxes levied on goods and services included in GDP
calculations.

### Source

Scientific Journal of Applied Social and Clinical Science - TIME SERIES
ANALYSIS FOR THE QUARTERLY GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT OF AMAZONAS
